The human voice is a marvelous instrument, capable of great variety.
When we vary our volume, pitch, and pace,
so as to convey ideas clearly and stir emotion,
we're using modulation.
Why is modulation important when speaking?
For the same reason, it's important when playing a musical instrument.
How would music sound without modulation?
It's not very appealing, is it?
Now, let's vary the volume.
Let's also add changes in pace.
Finally, let's add variations in pitch.
When the musician varied the volume, pace, and pitch,
the result was something pleasurable to listen to.
To illustrate the importance of doing this when we speak,
let's listen as a speaker presents fine information,
but with little modulation.
After 40 years of wandering in the wilderness,
the Israelites are on the verge of a momentous change.
They're about to take possession of the Promised Land.
Tents will be replaced by houses.
Manna will be replaced by meat and vegetables.
At last, they will be able to worship Jehovah
as a free and spiritually clean people.
Still, challenges awaited them.
What would Moses say shortly before his death
to encourage and prepare them?
Let's find out by reading Deuteronomy 31 verses 7 and 8.
We stopped the speaker before he read the scripture
and finished making the point
because he was difficult to listen to.
Let's watch him try again.
But this time, he varies his volume, pitch, and pace.
After 40 years of wandering in the wilderness,
the Israelites are on the verge of a momentous change.
They're about to take possession of the Promised Land.
Tents will be replaced by houses.
Manna will be replaced by meat and vegetables.
At last, they'll be able to worship Jehovah
as a free and spiritually clean people.
Still, challenges awaited them.
What would Moses say shortly before his death
to encourage and prepare them?
Let's find out by reading Deuteronomy 31 verses 7 and 8.
Moses then called Joshua and sent to him
before the eyes of all Israel.
Be courageous and strong.
For you are the one who will bring this people into the land
that Jehovah swore to their forefathers to give to them,
and you will give it to them as an inheritance.
Jehovah is the one marching before you,
and he will continue with you.
He will neither desert you nor abandon you.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.
It was much better, wasn't it?
Did you notice how the speaker built anticipation
for the Scripture by lowering his volume as he asked?
What would Moses say shortly before his death
to encourage and prepare them?
Then he increased his volume when reading Moses' excitation.
If we strive to read and speak with modulation
we'll convey the ideas more clearly
and stir the emotion of our listeners.